Version 1.6.0-RC (#3035)
Kotlin/kotlinx.coroutines: CHANGES.md

# Change log for kotlinx.coroutines

## Version 1.6.0-RC

### kotlinx-coroutines-test rework

* `kotlinx-coroutines-test` became a multiplatform library usable from K/JVM, K/JS, and K/N.
* Its API was completely reworked to address long-standing issues with consistency, structured concurrency and correctness (#1203, #1609, #2379, #1749, #1204, #1390, #1222, #1395, #1881, #1910, #1772, #1626, #1742, #2082, #2102, #2405, #2462
  ).
* The old API is deprecated for removal, but the new API is based on the similar concepts ([README](kotlinx-coroutines-test/README.md)), and the migration path is designed to be graceful: [migration guide](kotlinx-coroutines-test/MIGRATION.md)

### Dispatchers

* Introduced `CoroutineDispatcher.limitedParallelism` that allows obtaining the slice of the original dispatcher with limited parallelism (#2919).

> * `Dispatchers.IO` parallelism level is now unbounded for `limitedParallelism` usages (#2943).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Dispatchers.IO.limitedParallelism` usages ignore the bound on the parallelism level of `Dispatchers.IO` itself to avoid starvation (#2943).
```

* Introduced new `Dispatchers.shutdown` method for containerized environments (#2558).
* `newSingleThreadContext` and `newFixedThreadPoolContext` are promoted to delicate API (#2919).

### Breaking changes

> * `future` builder no longer reports unhandled exceptions with racing cancellation into

Reviewer: Do I understand this right?
```suggestion
* When racing with cancellation, the `future` builder no longer reports unhandled exceptions into the
```

  global `CoroutineExceptionHandler`. Thanks @vadimsemenov! (#2774, #2791).
* `Mutex.onLock` is deprecated for removal (#2794).
* `Dispatchers.Main` is now used as the default source of time for `delay` and `withTimeout` when present(#2972).
    * To opt-out from this behaviour, `kotlinx.coroutines.main.delay` system property can be set to `false`.
* Java target of coroutines build is now 8 instead of 6 (#1589).

### Bug fixes and improvements

* Kotlin is updated to 1.6.0.

> * Kotlin/Native new memory model is now supported in regular builds of coroutines an

Reviewer: ?

Author: It seems like my offline editor has eaten it for some reason, copied it manually

* Introduced `CopyableThreadContextElement` for mutable context elements shared among multiple coroutines. Thanks @yorickhenning! (#2893).
* `transformWhile`, `awaitClose`, `ProducerScope`, `merge`, `runningFold`, `runingReduce`, and `scan` are promoted to stable API (#2971).

> * `SharedFlow.subscriptionCount` no longer conflates incoming updates and gives all subscribers a chance to observe a

Reviewer: ?

* `Flow` exception transparency mechanism is improved to be more exception-friendly (#3017, #2860).

> * Cancellation from `flat*` operators that leverage multiple coroutines is no longer propagated upstream (#2964).

Reviewer: Is this not a breaking change?

Author: Because it's `@FlowPreview` API

* `SharedFlow.collect` now returns `Nothing` (#2789, #2502).
* `FlowCollector` is now `fun interface`, and corresponding inline extension is removed (#2790).
* Deprecation level of all previously deprecated signatures is raised (#3024).

> * The version file is shipped into each JAR resource (#2941).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The version file is shipped with each JAR as a resource (#2941).
```

> * Unhandled exceptions on K/N are passed to `processUnhandledException` from standard library (#2981).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Unhandled exceptions on K/N are passed to the standard library function `processUnhandledException` (#2981).
```
Otherwise, this reads like the exceptions are passed from the standard library, whatever it means.

>   subscription (#2971, #2488, #2863).

Reviewer: Looks like this is the missing end of one of the entries above.

> * A direct executor is used for `Task` callbacks in `kotlinx-coroutines-play-services` (#2990).

Reviewer: Isn't *the* direct executor unique?

Author: I always thought of it as "whatever direct executor -- guava's one, hand-rolled or from any other library"

* Metadata of coroutines artifacts leverages Gradle platform to have all versions of dependencies aligned (#2865).
* Default `CoroutineExceptionHandler` is loaded eagerly and does not invoke `ServiceLoader` on its exception-handling path (#2552).

> * Enhanced R8 rules for `ServiceLoader` optimization (#2880).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed the R8 rules for `ServiceLoader` optimization broken by an R8 update (#2880).
```

* Fixed BlockHound integration false-positives (#2894, #2866, #2937).
* The exception recovery mechanism now uses `ClassValue` when available (#2997).

> * Internal `Job` machinery no longer uses double-compare-singe-swap in order to reduce DEX size and slightly improve the performance of the `Job` (#2096).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Internal `Job` machinery no longer uses double-compare-singe-swap, in order to reduce DEX size and slightly improve the performance of the `Job` (#2096).
```
